Time for everybody's favorite
thing in the world, pop quiz.
Ha-ha-ha-ha.
All right, let's put some of
the JavaScript knowledge we've got so
far to the test with a little quiz game.
All right, so
we're gonna play this together.
[COUGH] Question or statements, let's say,
JavaScript was invented in 1995,
true or false?
>> True.
>> True, yes,
this was a easter egg hidden
in that JavaScript object.
And as I mentioned,
Brendan Eich created JavaScript at
Netscape in 1995 in just 10 days.
Interesting, all right, next question,
strings in JavaScript are editable values.
I'm hearing a-
>> False.
>> False, bingo.
So in JavaScript, strings are immutable,
so they can't be edited, but
we can replace them with new and
different strings.
And there's another but that they are
wrapped in kind of these string objects,
which don't manipulate the string,
but often return a new or
different string based
on the original string.
Great, two for two so far.
Excellent work.
Okay, how about 1 + 1 === 2?
True or false?
>> True.
>> Ha-ha, yes, the plus operator,
when it operates on two numbers,
which the 1's are here,
gives their sum, which is 2.
Now, how about '1' + '1' === '2',
true or false?
>> False.
>> I'm hearing false.
Boom, the plus operator,
when it operates on strings,
it does something different than
when it operates on numbers.
So on strings, it concatenates them.
So we would get?
>> 11.
>> String 11, yeah, string 11.
Okay, last question.
Typeof[string 'J',
string 'S'] === strings 'array'.
True or false?
>> False.
>> False, yes,
because arrays are type object, exactly.
Cuz everything in JavaScript is either
a primitive, like strings and numbers and
Booleans, or objects.
So arrays are just
a special kind of object.
And with that,
y'all have got a perfect score.
[APPLAUSE] Great job.
So this, what we're looking at here
is essentially our project for
this part of the course.
So we're going to build a kind of
simplified little JavaScript quiz game,
where we're gonna have
a statement about JavaScript.
And then two buttons, true or false.
And when we make a guess,
we're going to have the page react to tell
us whether the guess was accurate
by turning the buttons green or
whether it was inaccurate
by turning the button red.
And we're gonna display a little
explanation of why the answer is
what it is.
This is our project, our next
project moving on from tic-tac-toe.
And we are going to be working through
this kind of incrementally as we go
through a few more concepts in JavaScript
that we're gonna need to make all of that
happen.
And one of the things that we're gonna
do is look at writing JavaScript,
not in the browser console but
in a text file.
So we said earlier that we have
a few different options for
where we write JavaScript.
One option that we've been using so
far, and we're gonna keep using for
testing out small things is the browser's
JavaScript console, which we saw we can
open by opening the browser's developer
tools by inspecting the page.
Another option that we have is using
a local text file and a text editor.
So for example,
if let's say you're on macOS,
you probably have a built-in
text editor called TextEdit.
Or there are other text editors that folks
like to use for coding, specifically
the most popular of which these days
is called VS Code, Visual Studio Code.
It's put up by Microsoft, and
that is kind of a more comprehensive
integrated development environment.
In this case, it's not gonna matter
what text editor you use, but
we are gonna get used to writing
JavaScript inside of an HTML file so
that we don't lose our changes, for
example, when we reload the page.
So let's do it.
So in the project materials, so
on Java.dev/JavaScript minus
first minus steps,
there is a file, JS Quiz starter.
So if you go to the JavaScript First Step
site, you'll see a JS Quiz starter,
and that is gonna be the starting
point for our project.
Now, there's a finished
version as reference,
which we'll get to by
the end of this section.
And then there's also the kind of fancy or
multi question version,
which is what we just walked
through with multiple questions,
which you can look at on your own time
if you wanna take it to the next level.
But for now,
we're going to open this starter file, and
we'll see we have kind of a blank
slate here with just some HTML that is
setting up the page for us, so
we don't have to worry about that.
So what we're going to do
is we're gonna save this
file locally to our own computer,
which on most systems,
you can do as a right
clicking on the page, And
Save Page As or
Save File As depending on your browser.
And this should give you the option to
save it to, let's say, your downloads.
And you can save it as whatever
you want to save it as,
.html, or it might do that for you.
So we are going to save
that wherever you'd like.
You should also have an option in the file
menu if the right click doesn't work to
save page as, or just Ctrl or
Cmd + C usually works.
And once we've got that saved, we're gonna
open it in our text editor of choice.
So whether you're using kind of
the built-in TextEdit program,
or whether you're using
something a little bit more
robust like VS code, it's totally fine.
So in this case, I'm going to use
VS Code just to show it to you.
But if you're using some other editor,
there's other ones out there too
that folks use, like Atom or Sublime
was very popular for a while there too.
Anything is fine.
In this case, we just need something
that lets us edit the text file.
So I'm going to open this file up,
And we should get this, our nice little
DOCTYPE html that we know and love.
And we can scroll down and
see some CSS going on, and
keep scrolling down and
see what we've got here, okay?
Hopefully, everybody is
able to download it and
get it opened in some kind of text editor.
Now, the nice thing about an IDE
as opposed to text edit or
something like that is that it does fancy
stuff for us, like syntax highlighting.
And it even has some integrations
with stuff like MDN so
that I can look up certain, I don't know,
CSS properties and whatnot.
So there are some nice kind of bonus
things when you're working with an editor
that's specifically for
software development.
But you don't need any
of that in order for
you to write totally valid JavaScript and
HTML and so on and so forth.
Okay, so where in the HTML
doc does JavaScript go?
There is a certain element in HTML
that we're gonna wrap our JavaScript
in in order for the browser to be
able to run it in our web page.
Does anybody know the tag,
the little angle brackets
thing that we need to put
our JavaScript inside of?
>> It's script, right?
>> Script, lovely.
Yes, so
there is a script element in our page.
So if we scroll down, we see a few
different elements, for example,
we have a style element, where a bunch
of CSS goes, it was just pre-written, so
we don't have to worry about.
We have our body, where a bunch of
our content goes, some divs and
some buttons and things.
And then we have a script here,
which sometimes you'll see it
just as the plain script tag.
And sometimes you might see some other
attributes on there, like a type
attribute, for example, that even more
explicitly calls out this is JavaScript.
And so within that, between the opening
script tag and the closing script tag,
this is where we're gonna write all
of our code in JavaScript, okay?
Cool, and if you wanna read more about
the script element, and what it does, and
all of the things it can do, and
all of the attributes it can have,
you know where to go by this point.
So, all right, now, in our example here,
we have a whole bunch of this stuff.
What is this?
There's all these to-do things, and
there's all of these slash, slash, slash,
slash, slash, slash.
So what is all this about?
What are all of these things?
Anybody know?
>> Comments?
>> Comments, yes.
So these // lines in JavaScript
are what we call code comments.
Now, most programming languages have
some kind of concept of a way to
write text within your program that
is not actually part of the program.
It's not command to JavaScript,
it's sort of like notes we're leaving for
whatever human is gonna
be reading this code.
Now, that human might be,
let's say, your co-worker,
who has to also work on
the same code base that you do.
Or it might be you in the future,
who has to remember what the crap you
were doing when you wrote this code.
[LAUGH] So
code comments are really useful.
They help others and yourself
understand what your code is there for,
maybe why you wrote it a certain way or
what a certain part of the code does.
Or sometimes, for example, if you're
doing something a little bit weird or
that you normally wouldn't do,
you can leave a note, a comment to say,
this is why I'm doing this weird thing.
And it also can be useful to keep
track of things that you want to do
later with these to-do comments.
So in fact, some tooling, some IDEs, and
things like that will even parse out
the word to-dos and
sort of make a little checklist for you.
We're not gonna get that fancy, but the
idea is that we can use that to kind of
map out for ourselves what we've done
already and what we still need to do.
So comments are super useful, and in
JavaScript, they start with two slashes.
So that's what all of
these slashes are about.
These are all comments that
are essentially me leaving
notes to all of us about
what we're gonna do in this
JavaScript section of our HTML file,
question.
>> Why is the CSS all in one page?
>> Why is the CSS all in one page.
Well, right now, the reason that all of
this stuff is in one page is so that it is
easy for us to work with, so that we can
download just one file and edit it simply.
But in large projects and large
complicated websites, you will find that
all of this stuff, CSS, JavaScript,
even sometimes little chunks of
different parts of the HTML will sort of
be split up in lots of different places.
And then you'll have some kind of
scaffolding to sort of bring all
that together and load it all into
the same page in the browser.
But that is kind of more advanced in terms
of how large complex JavaScript programs,
or just generally large
web pages are structured.
And how we build websites for
putting up on the web.
This right now is our time to talk
about JavaScript and its features and
how it works.
And so just to make our lives simple,
we've just got one .html file, and
it has all of the stuff we need for
this particular page.
Okay, so in this case,
we've got a whole bunch of to-dos here.
In fact, it's a little overwhelming,
there's a lot of to-dos happening.
What we're gonna do in this part
of the course is gradually work
through these to-dos to fill in
the functionality of our quiz page so
that we go from this blank thing
that has no information and
nothing happens to our, Beautiful,
interactive, meaningful quiz project.